Philip D. Bulsink, BSc., MSc.

Contact Information
h: (613) 700-9727 w: (613) 947-3305
h: bulsinkp@gmail.com w: Philip.Bulsink@NRCan-RNCan.gc.ca

Summary: 
A proven problem solver with expertise in computational and analytical chemistry.
Comfortable with aggressive learning curves and development of novel ideas.
Experienced with complex method development and sample analysis by GC/MS and other instrumentation.

Education: 
Master's Degree, Chemistry, 2015, University of Ottawa
 Thesis: "Rhenium(I) Terdentate Compounds: Theoretical and Experimental Investigations"
 Seminar: "Recent Advances in NOx Abatement from Diesel Engine Emissions"
 Tasks: Synthesis & characterization of ligands and catalysts with novel photochemical properties. In-depth mechanism studies with various computational packages. Developed software in Python to simplify & accelerate work.
 Supervisors: Dr. Tom Woo and Dr. Darrin Richeson

Bachelor of Science, Honour's Chemistry, Co-op, Music Minor, 2012, University of Waterloo
 Honour's Thesis: "Solid Sample Analysis by Microplasma Optical Emission Spectroscopy"

Professional Experience:
Fuels Chemist, Characterization Laboratory, CanmetENERGY, Natural Resources Canada
2014 - Present
Perform method development and routine analysis, including GC-MS, SEM, and ICP-MS, for solid, liquid and gaseous samples. Manage statistical control charts and other documentation for ISO9001 certification. Oversee instrument repair and maintenance. Represent laboratory at internal and external client meetings.

Laboratory Teaching Assistant ,University of Ottawa, University of Waterloo
September 2011 - May 2014
Teaching assistant for undergraduate labs in general, organic, inorganic, analytical, and physical chemistry. Demonstrated techniques and explained theoretical basis for experiments.

Research Assistant - DeNOx Group 
May 2010 - August 2011 (12 months total)
Research of homogeneous catalysts for removal of NO and NO2 from lean burn diesel engine exhaust. Improved catalyst testing procedures. Scaled catalyst synthesis by 3 orders of magnitude. Custom-built instrumentation and software for investigations. Prepared manuscripts for publishing.

Analytical Chemist, Kinectrics Inc.
September - December 2009
Adhered to stringent ISO 17025 and ISO 14000 specifications while performing various chemical analysis. Developed, verified, and documented new analytical techniques. Prepared and tracked round-robin test samples for distribution to other laboratories.

Analytical Chemist - Characterization Laboratory, CanmetENERGY, Natural Resources Canada
January - April 2009
Performed analysis of solid and liquid fuel samples. Designed and implemented a software based quality control monitoring system to assist ISO 9001:2000 compliance. Repaired analytical instruments.

Honours and Distinctions:
 Dean's Scholarship, University of Ottawa, 2015
 Dean's Honour Roll, University of Waterloo, University of Ottawa, 2011 - 2014
 Graduate Student Poster Award, CSC Inorganic Division Poster Symposium, Quebec City, 2013
 Recognition of Collaboration Award, CanmetENERGY, Natural Resources Canada, 2012
 Aileen Proudfoot Award, CanmetENERGY, Natural Resources Canada, 2011
 Outstanding Co-op ranking, University of Waterloo, 2009 - 2012

Selected Publications:
 Bulsink, P. "TurboControl v.1.1.0", github.com/pbulsink/turbocontrol 2014.
 Stanciulescu, M., Bulsink, P., Caravaggio, G., Nossova, L., Burich, R. "NH3-TPD-MS study of Ce effect on the surface of Mn- or Fe-exchanged zeolites for selective catalytic reduction of NOx by ammonia", App. Surface Sci., 300, pp. 201-207, 2014.
 Bulsink, P., Korobkov, I., Woo, T., Richeson, D. "Transforming the chemistry of Re(I) to access the Elusive Pincer Geometry", CSC Inorganic Division Poster Symposium, 2013.
 Stanciulescu, M., Caravaggio, G., Dobri, A., Moir, J,. Burich, R., Charland, J.-P., Bulsink, P. "Low-temperature selective catalytic reduction of NOx with NH3 over Mn-containing catalysts", App. Catal. B: Env., 123-124, pp. 229-240, 2012.
 Caravaggio, G., Stanciulescu, M., Burich, R., Scheier, B., Bulsink, P. "Novel Catalysts for NOx Reduction with Reductants Produced In-Situ", DEER Conference, 2010.

Activities: 
Co-Founder, Vice Chair, Giving Refugees Hope in Uganda, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
January 2013 - Present
Co-founded charitable organization assisting refugees in Kampala, Uganda. Administer projects, developed website, maintain online & social media presence. Received charitable status from Canadian Revenue Agency in 8 months.

Designer & Programmer, ChemCalculator.com
Developed website containing various chemistry calculations not available or not user-friendly elsewhere online. Direct application of self-taught and online course-based knowledge and principles of programming.

Residence Don, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada
May - August 2009
Responsible for the well-being of 29 first and second year students. Counselled peers through personal and academic concerns. Organized oor and residence outings. Acted as a liaison between students and the Residence Manager.

Continuing Education:
Completed (with verified certificate) portions of the `Data Science' specialization on Coursera, offered in partnership with John Hopkins University.

Affiliations: 
 Chemical Institute of Canada (CIC), member 2011 - Present